# simple-emoji-map

A simple emoji map package that builds its data whenever it's installed.

This package maps the emoji codes (`2049`) or unicode (`⁉`) and sets them equal to its shortnames (`["interrobang","exclamation_question"]`).

The data generated by this package comes from [`emojibase-data`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/emojibase-data), released under the [MIT License](https://github.com/milesj/emojibase/blob/emojibase-data%407.0.1/packages/data/LICENSE).

## Usage

Since v1.0.0, this package switched to a peer dependency model to allow you to choose the Unicode/Emoji version based on the `emojibase-data` version you choose. Make sure to install it!

To ensure that the emoji data is always up-to-date, I recommend adding a `postinstall` script in your consumer `package.json`, using the corresponding package manager's command. This will re-run the build script any time dependencies are installed, avoiding potential issues in the future where emojibase is updated but the script is not run.
```json
"scripts": {
  "postinstall": "npm rebuild simple-emoji-map",
  "postinstall": "pnpm rebuild simple-emoji-map",
  "postinstall": "yarn run simple-emoji-map" 
}
```

Then to use the data:


```js
const emojis = require('simple-emoji-map');
const { variants } = require('simple-emoji-map');
```

Or using ES6 imports:

```js
import emojis from 'simple-emoji-map';
import { variants } from 'simple-emoji-map';
```

## Rebuilding

The JSON file is automatically generated on install.

To rebuild the JSON data file, it's a pretty simple process.

```js
const build = require('simple-emoji-map/build');
// import build from 'simple-emoji-map/build';

build();
```

## Config

To customize the build process, you will need either a `.simple-emoji-map` file or a `simple-emoji-map` property in package.json.

The `shortcodes` option selects which data set to use for the emoji codenames (see <https://github.com/milesj/emojibase/tree/emojibase-data%407.0.1/packages/data/en/shortcodes>).

The `cldr` and `cldr-native` values look to be supported in most languages (if not all), but the rest (`emojibase`, `emojibase-legacy`, `github`, etc) look to only exist for English.

```js
{
  "lang": "en",
  "shortcodes": {
    "dataset": "emojibase",
    "lang": null,

    "fallbackDataset": null,
    "fallbackLang": null
  },

  "shortnames": {},
  "type": "emoji", // or 'codepoint',
  "regex": null // regex for whitelist
}
```

### Shortnames

This is also the way to add custom shortnames to the map file.

For example, if you want `car` to show the emoji for `red_car` (`1f697`), the file or property would look something like this:

```js
{
    "shortnames": {
        "1f697": ["car"]
    }
}
```

Keep in mind this will **not** replace any existing shortnames, only add to the emoji code's list.
